FAQ
===

What is MechWolf?
-----------------

MechWolf is a Python package for continuous process automation. It consists of
two main parts: a Python library that allows you to describe and analyze
apparatuses and protocols as well as an IoT system to execute the protocols. It
greatly increases the speed and reproducibility of synthetic experimentation and
lowers the cost and time barriers to building custom automated synthesizers.

Why automate synthesis?
-----------------------

Most specialty chemicals are still made by hand, one batch at a time, using
chemical processes not amenable to automation or to truly complete
documentation. Only a few types of molecules, notably DNA, are now made by
specialized automated synthesizers, a development that laid the foundation for
genome technologies.

What can MechWolf enable?
-------------------------

MechWolf greatly increases the speed and reproducibility of synthetic
experimentation and lowers the cost and time barriers to building custom
automated synthesizers. These features make on-demand synthesis accessible to a
much wider audience worldwide. MechWolf can drive the discovery of new chemical
and biological processes as well as the application of machine learning to
synthetic processes.

Do I need to know how to code?
------------------------------

Yes. However, we prepared :doc:`a guide for non-coders <../guide/gentle_intro>`
that will ease you into it.

Why don't you support Python <3.6?
----------------------------------

`f strings <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0498/>`_ are the best thing
since sliced bread and `asynchronous generators
<https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0492/>`_ are pretty neat too. In all
seriousness, execution depends on asynchronous code and Python 3.6 has the best
support of all the Python versions.

Is this only for [insert field here]?
-------------------------------------

No. MechWolf is field agnostic. If it flows, MechWolf is capable of handling it.

How can I get support?
----------------------

If the error message is in red, then it means that the error was generated by
MechWolf. Follow the instructions given by the message, if applicable. If the
error message is in white, that means it was generated by Python. Look up the
message (you'll likely get a StackOverflow hit) and see if that helps you
resolve the issue.

Still, if those steps haven't solved the problem, `create an issue
<https://github.com/Benjamin-Lee/MechWolf/issues>`_ on the MechWolf GitHub and
someone will work to resolve the issue there.

Can I use MechWolf for commercial purposes?
-------------------------------------------

Yes. MechWolf is licensed under the permissive GPLv3 license.

Where can I get high-resolution versions of MechWolf's logo?
------------------------------------------------------------

High-res versions are available in the `logos directory
<https://github.com/Benjamin-Lee/MechWolf/tree/master/logo>`_.

How do I cite MechWolf?
-----------------------

To be determined when MechWolf is published!

What makes MechWolf different from prior code?
----------------------------------------------

Prior code specified individual components, such as for 3D printers, or was for
running protocols on pre-built setups. MechWolf is the first program to allow
full specification of not only the components, but also the connections of those
components into apparatuses. MechWolf also allows the definition and execution
of protocols for these apparatuses. MechWolf has the additional addition of
being self-documenting and designed from the start for user extensibility.

How was MechWolf started?
-------------------------

A project team lead by Prof. Nicola Pohl (Indiana University) with Harvard
undergraduates `Benjamin Lee <http://www.github.com/benjamin-lee>`_ and Myles
Ingram and MIT graduate student Alex Mijalis came together with support from the
Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study at Harvard University in 2017.
